ROS2 Discovery Server Tutorial Introspection extension [10296] (#220)
eProsima/Fast-RTPS-docs: docs/fastdds/ros2/discovery_server/ros2_discovery_server.rst

These **Discovery Servers** can be independent, duplicated or connected with each other in order to create
redundancy over the network and avoid having a *Single-Point-Of-Failure*.

.. _ros2_discovery_server_v2:

> 

Author: :+1:

    listen to each other messages.

ROS 2 Introspection
-------------------

ROS 2 Command Line Interface (CLI) implements several introspection features to analyze the behaviour of a ROS2
execution.
These features (i.e. `rosbag`, `topic list`, etc.) are very helpful to understand a ROS 2 working network.

> Most of these features use the DDS capability to share any topic info with every exiting participant.

Author: :+1:

However, the new :ref:`ros2_discovery_server_v2` implements a traffic network reduction
that limits the discovery data between nodes that do not share a topic.
This means that not every node will receive every topic data unless it has a reader in that topic.

The Discovery Server v2 functionality allows every server to know and share all the participants and topic information
with every other server matched.

> So, this functionality can be used in order to use ROS 2 introspection successfully when running with Discovery Server
> discovery protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this sense, a server can be configured alongside ROS 2 introspection, since then the introspection tool will be able to discover every entity in the network that is using the Discovery Server protocol.
```

Author: :+1:

Daemon's related commands
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ROS 2 Daemon is used in several ROS 2 CLI introspection commands.
This section will explain how to use ROS 2 CLI with ROS 2 Daemon running as a Server.
This will allow the Daemon to know all the Node's graph and to receive every topic and endpoint information.

Fast DDS CLI can execute a Discovery Server, but it will spawn the Server in the actual process (or in a new one),
and we want to run ROS 2 Daemon process as the Discovery Server.
For this purpose, Fast DDS XML configuration can be used in order to preconfigure every new node that is created

> with this configuration exported.

Reviewer: I don't think this is clear enough. Actually, up to here, it is not stated yet that the daemon has its own participant and so on.

Author: Please, check if the new additions clarify enough the idea.

> Here it is the configuration file that will make that every new participant will be created as a Discovery Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you can find a XML configuration file which will configure every new participant a Discovery Server.
```

Author: :+1:

> It is important to notice that, in order to create a Discovery Server, it is needed to specify a port and a GUID (id)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to notice that, in order to create a Discovery Server, port and a GUID (id) must be specified
```

Author: :+1:

> so only one participant must be created while this configuration file is in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so only one participant at a time can be created while this configuration file.
```

Author: :+1:

> Otherwise, the new participant creation will lead to an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating more than one participant with the same file will lead to an error.
```

Author: :+1:

* :download:`XML Discovery Server configuration file <discovery_server_configuration_file.xml>`

First of all, instantiate a ROS 2 Daemon using this configuration (remember to source ROS 2 installation in every
new terminal).

.. code-block:: console

    export FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=discovery_server_configuration_file.xml
    ros2 daemon stop
    ros2 daemon start

> Run a talker and a listener that will discover each other by the Server/Daemon (notice that ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a talker and a listener that will discover each other by the Server/Daemon (notice that `ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`
```

Author: :+1:

configuration is the same as the one in `discovery_server_configuration_file.xml`).

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

> Now the Daemon can be used to introspect the network (ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER must be exported because new nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the Daemon can be used to introspect the network (`ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER` must be exported because new nodes
```

Author: :+1:

are created within this tools' executions).

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 topic list
    ros2 node info /talker
    ros2 topic info /chatter
    ros2 topic echo /chatter

> Be careful to use a different terminal than the Daemon one for each execution, as some of the introspection tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful to use a different terminal than that of the Daemon one for each execution, as some of the introspection tools
```

Author: :+1:

instantiate their own nodes, and only one node could be instantiated with `discovery_server_configuration_file.xml`
exported.

We can also see the Node's Graph using the ROS 2 tool `rqt_graph` as follows.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    rqt_grap

No Daemon commands
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some ROS 2 CLI tools can be executed without the ROS 2 Daemon.

> In order to these tools to connect with a Discovery Server and receive all the topics info

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for these tools to connect with a Discovery Server and receive all the topics information
```

Author: :+1:

execution.
These features (i.e. `rosbag`, `topic list`, etc.) are very helpful to understand a ROS 2 working network.

Most of these features use the DDS capability to share any topic information with every exiting participant.
However, the new :ref:`ros2_discovery_server_v2` implements a traffic network reduction
that limits the discovery data between nodes that do not share a topic.
This means that not every node will receive every topic data unless it has a reader in that topic.
As most of ROS 2 CLI Introspection is executed by adding a node into the network (some of them use ROS 2 Daemon,

> and some creates their own nodes), using Discovery Server v2 we will find that most of these functionalities are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and some create their own nodes), using Discovery Server v2 we will find that most of these functionalities are
```

Author: :+1:

> limited and do not have the whole information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
limited and do not have all the information.
```

Author: :+1:

> The Discovery Server v2 functionality allows every node running as a **Server** (Participant/Node type)

Reviewer: Is the parenthesis intended to be a reference to the API?

Author: No. It intended to be a definition of `Server` as a Participant type / Node type.
I will leave just participant so it makes it more comprehensible

In this sense, a server can be configured alongside ROS 2 introspection, since then the introspection tool will
be able to discover every entity in the network that is using the Discovery Server protocol.

Daemon's related commands
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ROS 2 Daemon is used in several ROS 2 CLI introspection commands. It adds a ROS 2 Node to the network in order
to receive all the data sent.
This section will explain how to use ROS 2 CLI with ROS 2 Daemon running as a **Server**.
This will allow the Daemon to know all the Node's graph and to receive every topic and endpoint information.

Fast DDS CLI can execute a Discovery Server, but it will spawn the Server in the actual process (or in a new one),
and we want to run ROS 2 Daemon process as the Discovery Server.
For this purpose, Fast DDS XML configuration can be used in order to preconfigure every new node that is created
with this configuration exported.

Below you can find a XML configuration file which will configure every new participant as a Discovery Server.
It is important to notice that, in order to create a Discovery Server, port and a GUID (id) must be specified.

> so only one participant at a time can be created whit this configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so only one participant at a time can be created with this configuration file.
```

Author: :+1:

    ros2 topic info /chatter
    ros2 topic echo /chatter

> Be careful to use a different terminal than that of the Daemon one for each execution, as some of the introspection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful to use a different terminal than that of the Daemon for each execution, as some of the introspection
```

Author: :+1:
